
# Guia Edutec Repository - Open Source

## Database project

* [Technical Documentation](https://github.com/EL-BID/geos-database/blob/master/Documentaci%C3%B3n_T%C3%A9cnica_Guia_Edutec.pdf)

Access to other projects
* [Back-end](https://github.com/EL-BID/geos-backend)
* [Front-end](https://github.com/EL-BID/geos-frontend)

---
_The Guia Edutec was originally developed by CIEB. The process of opening the code has made possible by financial support of Fundación ProFuturo._


---

## Backup database commands

mongodump
No Auth : docker exec <mongodb container> sh -c 'mongodump --archive' > db.dump

Authenticated : docker exec <mongodb container> sh -c 'mongodump --authenticationDatabase admin -u <user> -p <password> --db <database> --archive' > db.dump

mongorestore
No Auth : docker exec -i <mongodb container> sh -c 'mongorestore --archive' < db.dump

Authenticated : docker exec -i <mongodb container> sh -c 'mongorestore --authenticationDatabase admin -u <user> -p <password> --authenticationMechanism SCRAM-SHA-256 --db <database> --drop --archive' < db.dump


## Update Database Seed

After any modification in the database data that is not generated by the users and is desireble that persist for other implementations is recomended update the Database seed.

For this you can run the next commands


Create temporary folder 

mkdir /tmp/guia_edutec

Create a data base dump

docker run --rm -v /tmp/guia_edutec:/backup --network geos-database_geos-network mongo sh -c 'mongodump --host geos-database --port 27017 --authenticationDatabase admin -u <user> -p <password> --authenticationMechanism SCRAM-SHA-256 --db guia_edutec --gzip --out /backup'

Copy collections files to the mongo-seed folder of this project

cp /tmp/guia_edutec/guia_edutec/<collection_name>* /project/geos-database/mongo-seed/database/guia_edutec/.



## Acknowledgments / Reconocimientos

**Copyright © [2025]. Inter-American Development Bank ("IDB"). Authorized Use.**  
The procedures and results obtained based on the execution of this software are those programmed by the developers and do not necessarily reflect the views of the IDB, its Board of Executive Directors or the countries it represents.

**Copyright © [2025]. Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo ("BID"). Uso Autorizado.**  
Los procedimientos y resultados obtenidos con la ejecución de este software son los programados por los desarrolladores y no reflejan necesariamente las opiniones del BID, su Directorio Ejecutivo ni los países que representa.

### Support and Usage Documentation / Documentación de Soporte y Uso

**Copyright © [2025]. Inter-American Development Bank ("IDB").** The Support and Usage Documentation is licensed under the Creative Commons License CC-BY 4.0 license. The opinions expressed in the Support and Usage Documentation are those of its authors and do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the IDB, its Board of Executive Directors, or the countries it represents.

**Copyright © [2025]. Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID).** La Documentación de Soporte y Uso está licenciada bajo la licencia Creative Commons CC-BY 4.0. Las opiniones expresadas en la Documentación de Soporte y Uso son las de sus autores y no reflejan necesariamente las opiniones del BID, su Directorio Ejecutivo ni los países que representa.
